# InfiniteChessEndgameScripts
A collection of a few short python scripts I wrote to try and understand infinite (fairy) chess endgames where White has some pieces and Black a lone king.

infinite_tablebase.py is a tablebase generator of sorts. The main function is "get_wins", which takes in a collection of positions one would like to force, and attempts to reverse engineer positions from which those positions can be forced. In practice I use this to determine if a collection of positions I know to be winning can be forced from a position (or collection of positions) I know to be forceable. It also is able to give strong evidence certain endgames are impossible, by showing that no checkmating positions are forceable in k moves for some small k. The caveat is that the method assumes the pieces move no more than some bounded number of squares at a time, so on its own this can never quite prove an endgame is impossible.  

trap_tester.py's main function is find_maximal_inescapable_tempo_gaining_trap, which takes a set of positions (all with black to move), and tries to determine if there is any subset of those positions to which White can confine Black forever, while also giving White time to bring in other pieces. As the function is quite slow, one can save and load traps to and from file. Its main results have been the existence of a trap in the NBB_00 v K endgame, and a trap in the endgame with an Archbishop and Hawk vs a lone king. Also in this file is the function play_vs_trap, which lets the user attempt to escape as Black against a computer opponent who knows the trap.
